- [Instructor] In our previous examples,
the requests that we sent to Azure Cognitive Services
were sent synchronously.
That means that the API call
blocked the execution of our code.
So here in line 69,
once we sent the request over to the text analytics API,
our code did not continue execution,
it sat here and waited for that response
to come back from the API.
Now, we have other options in how we make this call.
We can make the call asynchronous
and when we make an asynchronous call,
it's going to allow our code to continue executing
while we wait on the response from the API
and we can do this with the new Java 11 HTTP client.
Let's take a look at this in action.
So the first thing that we'll need to do
is change from using the send method on the HTTP client
to using the sendAsync method,
and the mechanics of this method work
a little bit differently.
We're no longer going to return the HttpResponse,
so I'm going to go ahead and remove that,
and the sendAsync method
actually returns a completable future,
so this allows us to handle the response
from the API when it's received,
similar to working with a callback.
So we can specify these different stages
when we work with that response.
So to do that, you can use the thenApply method,
and this is going to allow us
to extract a value from the response.
I'm going to go ahead and pull out the body of the response,
so this is going to be a string,
and then that value is just going to get passed
to our final completion stage,
which we can specify using the thenAccept method,
and this is also going to require us to
provide a Lambda function,
that Lambda function is going to receive
the response body as an argument,
and then I'm going to go ahead and set up a block
where we're going to put some logic.
Okay, so let's talk about this a little bit.
Within this block,
we're going to create an object of type JsonNode,
and this is an object that makes it
a little bit easier to work with Json as an object.
We're going to use the ObjectMapper from Jackson
in order to read the body string,
you'll remember, that contains the Json
that was found in the response body,
and then we're going to map this
to an object of type JsonNode,
so we'll specify that class.
Okay, so we have our Json node,
let's go ahead,
we'll import those types,
and now I'm going to extract the first key phrase
from the Json.
So to do that,
the first thing we'll do is get the documents property,
and you see we just provide the key,
then we're going to get the first item
in the documents array,
then we're going to get the keyPhrases property,
that's also an array,
so we're going to get the first key phrase
within that array,
and then I'm going to turn it to a string.
Okays so we got the first key phrase,
let's go ahead and print that out to the console.
We'll say the first key phrase is,
and then we'll concatenate our key phrase there.
And now what going to do is add some additional output
outside of our call,
and I'm going to do this
to illustrate the asynchronous nature of the call.
So I'm just going to put some console output,
I'm just going to say, this will be called first
because our call is async.
Okay, and the other I'm going to have to do
is sleep the thread for roughly 5,000 seconds,
and that's because I don't want our unit tests
to complete prior to the response being returned by the API.
Okay, one last thing to do,
we have to handle some exceptions.
I'm going to go ahead and put a try catch block in there,
and then we'll surround our code with that block.
Okay, so we're set up the test this,
but let's talk through what's going to happen.
When we hit line 70, we're going to send a request
to the text analytics API in Azure Cognitive Services.
Now, our code is going to continue to execute,
so actually line 95 will print to the console.
At sometime after we execute line 95,
the text analytics API is going to return a response.
We're going to take that response,
extract the response body, which is a string,
and then we'll pass that to the thenAccept method
where we handle that Json string
by converting it to a JsonNode,
and then we extract a key phrase and print it,
and the key point here
is that line 85 will print after line 95.
All right, let's go ahead, we'll save this
and take a look at it in action.
Okay, so you can see this will be called first
because our call is async,
that was the line we expected first,
and then we got the first key phrase.
So in this lesson, we took a look
at a different type of API call, an asynchronous call.
This is different from a synchronous call
that's going to block.
It can be used in situations
where you do not need the response from the API immediately
to continue your processing.
In those situations,
it can be much more efficient to use an async call,
but make sure you do some deliberation
before selecting one or the other.